Ghana Adventures Insight Dashboard
Customer Insights Report

Prepared by: Priscilla Koramah
Date: October 2025

1. Project Overview

The Ghana Adventures Insight Dashboard was developed to analyze tourism booking data and uncover trends in customer behavior, sales performance, and seasonal demand.
The goal was to provide data-driven insights to guide marketing, pricing, and operational decisions for the company.

2. Data and Tools Used

Data Source: Ghana Adventures Excel dataset containing tour bookings, customer demographics, and revenue records.

Tools Used:

Microsoft Power BI – for data visualization and dashboard design

Microsoft Excel – for data cleaning and preparation

DAX (Data Analysis Expressions) – for creating KPI calculations

3. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs)
KPI	Description
Total Revenue	Sum of all revenue from bookings
Total Bookings	Count of all tour bookings
Average Revenue per Booking	Revenue efficiency per booking
Total Customers	Number of unique customers
Repeat Rate	Percentage of customers who made more than one booking
Average Revenue per Customer	Average spending per customer
4. Analysis Process

The analysis followed a structured approach that included data cleaning, transformation, DAX measure creation, and visualization.

Key DAX measures created include:

Total Revenue: SUM('Bookings'[Revenue])

Total Bookings: COUNTROWS('Bookings')

Average Revenue per Booking: DIVIDE([Total Revenue], [Total Bookings])

Total Customers: DISTINCTCOUNT('Bookings'[Customer_ID])

Repeat Rate: Ratio of repeat customers to total customers

These measures allowed for detailed performance tracking and comparative analysis across time periods and tour types.

5. Key Insights

Seasonality:
Bookings peaked in December 2024 and January 2025, showing strong holiday travel trends.

Off-season dip:
Bookings were significantly lower between May and September, confirming mid-year as the slow season.

Top-performing tours:
Adventure and cultural tour packages generated the highest number of bookings and revenue.

Repeat customers:
A moderate percentage of repeat customers was observed — suggesting potential to improve loyalty through targeted marketing or reward programs.

6. Business Recommendations

Targeted Off-Season Campaigns:
Use early-bird discounts, bundled experiences, and partnership promotions to boost sales during slower months.

Dynamic Pricing:
Adjust pricing for peak vs. off-peak seasons. Offer limited-time discounts during slow periods to maintain interest and demand.

Tour Optimization:
Expand top-performing tours and A/B test low-performing ones before discontinuation.
This ensures that decisions are data-backed rather than based solely on sales volume.

Customer Retention:
Develop a loyalty or referral program to encourage repeat bookings. Personalized follow-up emails and exclusive offers can further improve customer return rates.

7. Conclusion

The Ghana Adventures Insight Dashboard provides a clear and data-driven understanding of the company’s booking trends, customer behavior, and sales performance.

By acting on these insights — through seasonal marketing, smart pricing, and customer loyalty initiatives — Ghana Adventures can increase profitability, improve customer satisfaction, and maintain consistent growth throughout the year.

✅ Author: Priscilla Koramah
Role: Data Analyst | Power BI Developer
📅 October 2025
